---
authors:
  - martin
  - jakub
date: 2024-01-09 07:59:20 +01:00
slug: "01"
post_id: 140491934.01
title: "Better Button #01"
description: "Hello in the new year! Did you also spend time over Christmas strategizing how much you can accomplish, organizing your thoughts, clearing up leftovers, and starting the new year with a clean slate? We ended up just like you."
published: "2024-01-09T06:59:20.341Z"
is_published: true
---
# Better Button #01
> Hello in the new year! Did you also spend time over Christmas strategizing how much you can accomplish, organizing your thoughts, clearing up leftovers, and starting the new year with a clean slate? We ended up just like you.

# **Linkodrome**

**Do you make New Year's resolutions?**

Web designers are just like all early birds: Year after year, we make the same resolutions that we forget about after a few weeks due to routine. We want to breathe life into our designs. We want to leave something behind. We want to learn new things. We want to share experiences. We want to find time to launch something of our own. Interestingly, among designers' resolutions, there is rarely a desire to stop something. To let something new into our lives, we first need to make space for it.

**What will you give up this year?**

As designers, at the turn of the year we eagerly devoured overviews of new trends. But that's just reading coffee grounds. Either the prediction won't come true, or it's already a past trend.

Far more interesting is to look back at the past. In recent years, no-code has burst into our industry: whether in the form of automation or website builders. Where no-code platforms aren't enough, design systems prevail. A large part of designers today already just builds websites from components like Lego blocks.

**For connoisseurs:** The parameterization of design using design tokens has appeared, and it's only a matter of time before building websites from design systems is definitively taken over by artificial intelligence.

We're not afraid – on the contrary, we're looking forward to such a future! Just look at the progress (albeit still timid) being made by the design system of the state administration. Within a few years, the unified look will spread from websites and applications to other forms of state administration presentation. And that's a hopeful prospect.

Every year we look at what books have been published in our field. That's also a kind of testimony about the world. Publishers like A Book Apart, Rosenfeld Media, Smashing Books, or O'Reilly Media are reliable. Of course, you've already read our 75 tips on how to get a website. But at the end of the year, a useful book about visual communication **This Is Not a Book** by Kateřina Přidalová was published by Umprum, which we would definitely recommend to you.

# **What are we currently working on?**

Just before Christmas, Martin was verifying a new content structure for a client's website using tree jack testing. He prepared cards with content from the current websites, and respondents then sorted them into appropriate categories and justified their choice. A lot of content cards needed to be prepared, so Martin used GPT4's ability to browse the web and create summaries for their preparation. As input, Martin used the export of URLs of individual websites. The output was then content cards on a board in Miro.

As a side project, a custom GPT agent was created, to which you can submit a page address (or a list of them), and it will return a structured summary of the content. Today we'll share it with you:

If you have access to paid ChatGPT, you can make stereotypical tasks much easier with custom agents, even without programming knowledge. The five hundred for a monthly subscription will quickly pay off in higher productivity. If you don't want your provided prompts and their outputs to become part of training data, and you don't have access to the enterprise version of ChatGPT, get a separate account where you turn off history retention.

And that's everything from the first Better Button newsletter. Write to us if you have any tips for us on what to improve or do differently next time.

May your year 2024 be successful not only on the web,

Jakub Goldmann and Martin Kopta.

