---
authors:
  - martin
  - jakub
date: 2025-04-18 07:59:00 +02:00
slug: "wireflow"
post_id: 161661659.wireflow
title: "Wireflow"
description: "Wireflow is a tool that combines screen appearance with user action flow – thus giving logic to the entire design."
published: "2025-04-18T05:59:00.000Z"
is_published: true
---
# Wireflow
> Wireflow is a tool that combines screen appearance with user action flow – thus giving logic to the entire design.

[Wireflow](https://app.uxcel.com/courses/designing-wireframes/what-are-wireflows-804) is a visual aid that combines screen designs with a map of the user's journey through the application. This helps wireflow understand how the app or website will function even before any programming starts. It allows you to show how users move between screens, what happens after a click, and where a user might encounter a problem.

Wireflow is most commonly used at the beginning of the design process. Right at that moment, it helps reveal errors in logic, missing steps, or blind spots that hinder the flow. It's a simple but very effective form of planning. Thanks to it, the designer, developer, and client immediately see what depends on what.

A great advantage is that wireflow is easy to share and explain. You don't have to struggle with long presentations. Just show a simple plan of screens connected by arrows according to what the user does. This quickly reveals whether the design makes sense.

Unlike complex prototypes, wireflow is quick and simple. Yet it shows the basic logic of the entire product. And that's exactly what we often overlook when we focus only on appearance or functions. Wireflow forces us to think about what actually happens when the user uses the app. And that's the foundation of successful design.

If you have rapid development and work with a sophisticated design system, wireflow can also be the last design deliverable before you start programming. When it comes to it, you can even draw wireflow without sophisticated design tools – a flipchart, whiteboard, or pencil and paper will suffice. Just remember to take photo documentation then.

*(Image in the teaser: [Kateřina Čápová](https://katerinacapova.cz/75-tipu/))*

