---
authors:
  - martin
  - jakub
date: 2025-04-03 07:59:41 +02:00
slug: "flow"
post_id: 160320226.flow
title: "Flow"
description: "Flow is a state of deep concentration in which one loses track of time. In a digital environment, it enables the creation of pleasant, meaningful, and seamlessly connected user experiences."
published: "2025-04-03T05:59:41.113Z"
is_published: true
---
# Flow
> Flow is a state of deep concentration in which one loses track of time. In a digital environment, it enables the creation of pleasant, meaningful, and seamlessly connected user experiences.

[Flow](https://www.positivepsych.edu.sg/what-is-flow/) (in Czech perhaps *plynutí*, but it is not translated) is a state where a person is completely immersed in an activity that they enjoy and that mildly challenges them. Everything proceeds smoothly, without unnecessary thinking or obstacles. This state was described by psychologist [Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi](https://positivepsychology.com/mihaly-csikszentmihalyi-father-of-flow/) and is commonly worked with today even in designing digital products.

If you create a website or application that supports flow, users will navigate it well, know what to do, and not be distracted. This allows them to concentrate, complete tasks, and feel good about what they are doing. Such an experience is not only pleasant but also motivating. Users are happy to return.

However, flow can be easily disrupted. It only takes a confusing interface, an unexpected notification, or a step that is too complicated. And sometimes flow is exploited. For example, when an app deliberately prevents someone from stopping scrolling or leaving. The user then stays not because they want to, but because they feel trapped.

Good flow design doesn't overdo it. It supports concentration but also gives the user the option to leave at any time. Such an approach is beneficial for both sides. Users will appreciate it, and creators gain trust and long-term loyalty.

Designing for flow means creating an environment that is clear, understandable, and natural. One that guides the user, doesn't distract, and reinforces their sense of control.

