---
authors:
  - martin
  - jakub
date: 2025-03-22 07:59:49 +01:00
slug: "fitts-law"
post_id: 159584420.fitts-law
title: "Fitts' Law"
description: "Fitts' Law is a psychological principle describing the relationship between distance, target size, and the speed of achieving it; crucial for designing effective user interfaces."
published: "2025-03-22T06:59:49.079Z"
is_published: true
---
# Fitts' Law
> Fitts' Law is a psychological principle describing the relationship between distance, target size, and the speed of achieving it; crucial for designing effective user interfaces.

Fitts' Law, also known as Fitts' Law ([Fitts’ Law](https://lawsofux.com/fittss-law/)), states that the larger and closer a target is, the faster and more easily a user can hit it. In other words—if you want people to click on something, it must be large, close, and clear. And if you don't want them to click on something, make it less noticeable.

This law originated in the 1950s, but it remains very important for designing digital products. It is used when creating buttons, navigation, icons, or even touch gestures. It helps improve usability and reduce frustration during interaction.

[Fitts' Law](https://www.interaction-design.org/literature/topics/fitts-law#:~:text=Now%20that%20we've%20seen,Distance)%2F%20W%20(Width).) is simple: The farther away and smaller a target is, the longer it takes to hit it. Larger and closer means faster targeting. In practice, this means important elements, such as a purchase button, should be large and easily accessible. Conversely, less important things can be small and placed to the side.

Designers who follow Fitts' Law create interfaces that are fast, intuitive, and pleasant to use. It works on computers, mobile devices, and in physical spaces. The more you consider this principle, the less people will have to think about what to do—and the more likely they are to just do it.

