---
authors:
  - martin
  - jakub
date: 2025-05-23 07:59:00 +02:00
slug: "jtbd"
post_id: 164441355.jtbd
title: "Jobs to be done"
description: "The JTBD method helps you understand user behavior through the goals for which they 'hire' products."
published: "2025-05-23T05:59:00.000Z"
is_published: true
---
# Jobs to be done
> The JTBD method helps you understand user behavior through the goals for which they 'hire' products.

The [jobs to be done](https://hbr.org/2016/09/know-your-customers-jobs-to-be-done) (JTBD) framework helps product teams design better tools. It doesn't start with who the user is, but with what they are trying to accomplish. Users choose a product because it should help them achieve a certain goal. Sometimes practical, other times emotional or social. If the product doesn't help them, they stop using it.

This approach helps find needs that are not yet being met. You can more easily discover which features make sense and what to avoid. Research according to jobs to be done shows why people try a product, why they stay with it, or why they abandon it.

By identifying these hidden jobs, teams can uncover unmet needs, determine which features truly add value, and avoid pitfalls like feature bloat or superficial segmentation. JTBD research methods, such as switch interviews or job mapping, allow you to uncover the real motivations behind product choice, adoption, and rejection.

The framework is based on innovation theory, particularly the work of [Clayton Christensen](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clayton_Christensen) and [Tony Ulwick](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anthony_Ulwick), and has been adopted by digital teams at companies like Intercom or Basecamp. JTBD complements – and sometimes replaces – traditional UX research methods and offers an outcome-driven approach that aligns product development with real user needs.

Whether you're building a new app or improving an old one, jobs to be done will help you better understand why people truly need your product.

