---
authors:
  - martin
  - jakub
date: 2025-02-14 07:59:54 +01:00
slug: "gigo"
post_id: 157110146.gigo
title: "GIGO: Garbage In, Garbage Out"
description: "Bad inputs lead to bad outputs. If UX design is based on flawed or low-quality foundations, the final product will suffer from poor usability and will fail to meet the expectations of both users and stakeholders."
published: "2025-02-14T06:59:54.284Z"
is_published: true
---
# GIGO: Garbage In, Garbage Out
> Bad inputs lead to bad outputs. If UX design is based on flawed or low-quality foundations, the final product will suffer from poor usability and will fail to meet the expectations of both users and stakeholders.

**Garbage In, Garbage Out** ([Garbage In, Garbage Out](https://cs.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smet%C3%AD_dovnit%C5%99,_smet%C3%AD_ven)), abbreviated GIGO, is a principle from computer science which states that **bad inputs lead to bad outputs**. This holds true in UX design as well. If a design is based on flawed or low-quality foundations, the final product will have poor usability and will fail to meet the expectations of both users and stakeholders.

GIGO in UX design primarily arises when a design is built on assumptions rather than real data. If a designer relies solely on their own ideas, they risk creating a product that does not address the actual needs of users. Another common issue is superficial user research. If user behavior is not thoroughly analyzed, the design may lack intuitiveness and functionality. Errors also occur during inadequate requirements gathering.

If project goals and client needs are not clearly defined, the resulting design may lack a meaningful structure. Design quality also depends on testing—if it is done carelessly or not at all, it is impossible to verify whether the design is truly understandable and effective. Last but not least, the quality of input data plays a key role. If information is inaccurate, incomplete, or distorted, it can lead to poor decision-making, negatively impacting the entire user experience.

Ignoring the GIGO principle in UX leads to products that fail to meet user expectations and may flop in the market. Therefore, it is crucial to collect quality data, test consistently, and make decisions based on verified information. The better the inputs, the better the outputs.

